Java libraries migration guide (#3506)
chainguard-dev/edu: content/chainguard/libraries/java/migration.md

---

> title: "Migrating a Java Project to Chainguard Libraries"

Reviewer: sentence case

type: "article"
linktitle: "Migrate to Chainguard"
description: "How to migrate an existing Java project to pull dependencies from Chainguard Libraries"
date: 2026-07-02T00:00:00+00:00
lastmod: 2026-07-02T00:00:00+00:00
tags: ["Chainguard Libraries", "Java"]
menu:
  docs: 
    parent: java
    identifier: Java Migration
weight: 056
toc: true
---

> Chainguard Libraries for Java provides a curated registry of packages rebuilt from upstream sources and [scanned for malware](/chainguard/libraries/overview/#malware-and-greyware-detection). Because Chainguard Libraries uses the standard Maven repository protocol, switching an existing project requires only a repository configuration change — no changes to your application code or dependency versions.

Reviewer: Don't use the term "registry" in Java. That's wrong. Use "repository". 

Intro is misleading, we either build from source or scan for malware/greyware.

Maven repository format (not protocol)

> This guide walks through migrating an existing Java project to Chainguard Libraries, covering the two most common setups:

Reviewer: empty line after sentences ending with ":"

- Direct access — your build tool connects directly to libraries.cgr.dev. This option is faster for initial evaluation and smaller-scale setups.

> - Repository manager — your build tool connects to a repository manager (such as Cloudsmith, JFrog Artifactory, or Sonatype Nexus), which proxies requests to Chainguard Libraries. 

Reviewer: I would about "such as" in ()

> ## Prerequisites

Reviewer: Empty line after titles?

> Before you begin, you'll need:

Reviewer: Avoid future tense

```suggestion
Before you begin, you need:
```

- An existing Java project 
- [`chainctl` installed and authenticated](/chainguard/chainctl-usage/how-to-install-chainctl/)

> - An [entitlement to Chainguard Libraries](/chainguard/chainctl/chainctl-docs/chainctl_libraries_entitlements_create/) for Java with upstream fallback enabled

Reviewer: maybe also link to the fallback enablement section if thats not right there

> > **Note**: The configurations in this guide assume that you have configured the Chainguard Repository’s upstream fallback. If you choose to manage your own fallback to upstream repositories, see the [Build configuration](/chainguard/libraries/java/build-configuration/) page for instructions on adding a fallback to Maven Central. Note that configuring a public fallback bypasses the protections provided by Chainguard.

Reviewer: Fallback can also be done in repo manager .. in fact, that's the default we documented there, so might also have to link there

Also, to some degree, that is still the better approach since it allows separation for built from source by Chainguard and others .. cc @angela-zhang

### Create an entitlement

> To create an entitlement to Chainguard Libraries for Java and enable [upstream fallback](/chainguard/libraries/overview/#upstream-fallback-and-controls) (including a default 7-day cooldown), run the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create an entitlement to Chainguard Libraries for Java and enable [upstream fallback](/chainguard/libraries/overview/#upstream-fallback-and-controls), including a default 7-day cooldown, run the following command:
```

```shell
chainctl libraries entitlements create --ecosystems=JAVA --policy=CHAINGUARD_AND_UPSTREAM
```

Alternatively, you can create an entitlement in the Chainguard Console: while viewing the Java ecosystem page, follow the prompts to create an access token.

> You can also configure cooldown policies after you create the entitlement. For example, to create and enforce a policy for a 14-day cooldown:

Reviewer: I would actually make this example to set cooldown to zero. That's arguably the best practice in Java and in general when using Chainguard only. We might want to elaborate on that somewhere @angela-zhang

Reviewer 2: I would add a note that you can set the cooldown to 0 if you wish. We don't have plans at the moment to change the default 7 day cooldown behavior

mvn install
```
{{% /tab %}}

{{% tab title="Gradle" %}}

```shell
cd your-project
./gradlew build
```

{{% /tab %}}

{{% tab title="Bazel" %}}

```shell
cd your-project
bazel build //...
```

{{% /tab %}}

{{< /tabs >}}

All dependencies should download from Central and tests should pass. This gives you a baseline to compare against after migration.

## Step 2: Generate a pull token

You must be an Owner or have the `libraries.java.pull_token_creator` permission to create a pull token.
You can [create a pull token in the Chainguard Console](/chainguard/libraries/access/#creating-pull-tokens-with-the-chainguard-console), or via `chainctl`. 

The following command creates the token and populates environment variables directly:

```shell
Eval $(chainctl auth pull-token --repository=java --name=my-java-token --output=env)
```

This results in values for the `CHAINGUARD_JAVA_IDENTITY_ID` and `CHAINGUARD_JAVA_TOKEN` variables. The token is named `my-java-token`, with a default expiration of 30 days. To configure the expiration, use the `--ttl` flag. 

Learn more about command options in the [chainctl documentation](/chainguard/chainctl/chainctl-docs/chainctl_auth_pull-token/).

> When configuring direct access, note that environment variables do not persist between terminal sessions. You will need to re-export them each time you open a new terminal, or add them to your shell profile. Learn more about pull tokens in the [Access documentation](https://edu.chainguard.dev/chainguard/libraries/access/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When configuring direct access, note that environment variables do not persist between terminal sessions. You must re-export them each time you open a new terminal or add them to your shell profile. Learn more about pull tokens in the [Access documentation](https://edu.chainguard.dev/chainguard/libraries/access/).
```

Maybe somewhere we should talk about using a secret manager .. but thats kinda a separate issue.

Reviewer: ??

### Ensure secure credential management

> **Do not commit credentials to version control.** The Gradle build.gradle file is typically committed to a repository — always use environment variables for credentials rather than hardcoding token values directly in the file. Maven credentials live in ~/.m2/settings.xml, which is outside the project directory and not committed by default, but take care not to add it to your repository. Store tokens as CI secrets referenced via environment variables instead. If you accidentally commit credentials, [delete the exposed token](/chainguard/libraries/access/#pull-token-management).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Do not commit credentials to version control.** The Gradle `build.gradle` file is typically committed to a repository — always use environment variables for credentials rather than hardcoding token values directly in the file. Maven credentials live in ~/.m2/settings.xml, which is outside the project directory and not committed by default, but take care not to add it to your repository. Store tokens as CI secrets referenced via environment variables instead. If you accidentally commit credentials, [delete the exposed token](/chainguard/libraries/access/#pull-token-management).
```

For more secure credential management, consider using a secrets manager such as 1Password CLI or Bitwarden, which can dynamically inject environment variables at runtime without storing token values in shell profiles or env files. 

### Verify your setup
Run the following command for a connectivity and auth check:

```bash
curl -u "$CHAINGUARD_JAVA_IDENTITY_ID:$CHAINGUARD_JAVA_TOKEN" \
  https://libraries.cgr.dev/java/
```

> The command will return an HTML page listing repository directories. If credentials are invalid or expired, you will receive a 403 error instead of the directory listing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The command returns an HTML page listing repository directories. If credentials are invalid or expired, you receive a 403 error instead of the directory listing.
```

## Step 3: Configure repository access

The `https://libraries.cgr.dev/java/` endpoint is also the [Chainguard Repository](/chainguard/chainguard-repository/overview/) endpoint for Java. By default, it serves only Chainguard-built artifacts. When upstream fallback is enabled for your organization, the same endpoint can also serve requested versions from Maven Central under Chainguard security controls.

### Direct access

{{< tabs >}}

{{% tab title="Maven" %}}

Create or update `~/.m2/settings.xml` to point Maven at Chainguard Libraries. 

This configuration sets the Chainguard [remediated repository](/chainguard/libraries/cve-remediation/) as the first source, followed by the standard Chainguard repository, with Maven Central set as “invalid” to avoid accidental unintended fallback to the public repository:

```xml
<settings>
  <activeProfiles>
    <activeProfile>chainguard-direct</activeProfile>
  </activeProfiles>
  <profiles>
    <profile>
      <id>chainguard-direct</id>

> 

Reviewer: you can probably cut down to one empty line or completely remove them

      <username>${env.CHAINGUARD_JAVA_IDENTITY_ID}</username>
      <password>${env.CHAINGUARD_JAVA_TOKEN}</password>
    </server>
  </servers>
</settings>
```

Review the file to verify it was written correctly:

```bash
cat ~/.m2/settings.xml
```

{{% /tab %}}

{{% tab title="Gradle" %}}

Update the repositories block in `app/build.gradle` to point to Chainguard Libraries. If you are using the remediated repository, set it first.

> **Note**: If your project manages repositories in `settings.gradle`, add the Chainguard repositories there instead.

```build.gradle
repositories {
    maven {
        url = uri("https://libraries.cgr.dev/java-remediated/")
        credentials {
            username = providers.environmentVariable("CHAINGUARD_JAVA_IDENTITY_ID").orNull
            password = providers.environmentVariable("CHAINGUARD_JAVA_TOKEN").orNull
        }
    }
    maven {
        url = uri("https://libraries.cgr.dev/java/")
        credentials {
            username = providers.environmentVariable("CHAINGUARD_JAVA_IDENTITY_ID").orNull
            password = providers.environmentVariable("CHAINGUARD_JAVA_TOKEN").orNull
        }
    }
    mavenCentral()
}
```

> If a dependency's pom file is found in Chainguard but the jar is not, Gradle will fail rather than fall back to Central automatically. If this happens, check whether a newer version of the dependency is available in Chainguard's catalog and update the version in your `build.gradle`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a dependency's pom file is found in Chainguard but the jar is not, Gradle fails rather than fall back to Central automatically. If this happens, check whether a newer version of the dependency is available in Chainguard's catalog and update the version in your `build.gradle`.
```

{{% /tab %}}

{{% tab title="Bazel" %}}

Bazel uses `MODULE.bazel` to configure repositories via `rules_jvm_external`. 

> First, set up `~/.netrc` with your Chainguard credentials:

Reviewer: The one problem with this is that you can't use netrc with Python and JavaScript on the same machine since we serve from the same server ULR for all of them. but I don't know if there is another way for Bazel. fyi @angela-zhang

Next, update the `MODULE.bazel` to point to Chainguard Libraries. If you are using the remediated repository, add `https://libraries.cgr.dev/java-remediated/` first:

```module.bazel
maven.install(
    artifacts = [
        # your artifacts here
    ],
    repositories = [
        "https://libraries.cgr.dev/java-remediated/",
        "https://libraries.cgr.dev/java/",
    ],
    use_credentials_from_home_netrc_file = True,
)
```

The `use_credentials_from_home_netrc_file = True` attribute tells the dependency resolver to read credentials from `~/.netrc` when authenticating with repositories. Without this flag, the `~/.netrc` is ignored, and requests to Chainguard fail authentication silently.

{{% /tab %}}

{{< /tabs >}}

### Repository manager

> If your organization uses a repository manager, configure it to use Chainguard Libraries as an upstream source first. Follow the [global configuration documentation](/chainguard/libraries/java/global-configuration/) for your repository manager.

Reviewer: That page might have to be updated to tell users to remove Central from the repository group or whatever

Author: The global config page has now been updated to address upstream fallback

Once configured, point your build tool at your repository manager URL. In this setup, the credentials your build tool uses are your repository manager credentials — not a Chainguard pull token.

{{< tabs >}}

{{% tab title="Maven" %}}

> Create or update `~/.m2/settings.xml` to point Maven at your repository manager:

Reviewer: This file still needs the "central" override with the "invalid" URL .. without it Maven will still fall back to Maven Central.

Reviewer: Also I dont know if something like that is necessary in Gradle or Bazel

Reviewer: Sorry .. this also needs to be changed to use the approach with "mirror" probably .. at least thats the common approach

Reviewer: See https://github.com/chainguard-dev/ecosystems-demos/blob/main/java/settings.xml.nexus

Author: In my testing, it seemed that Gradle and Bazel didn't need it

Author: Added the mirror and invalid Central URLs, also linked to the demo github page

Reviewer: Yeah .. Gradle and Bazel dont use settings.xml and have other fallback mechanisms.. I am not even sure how we would verify that they dont silently leak and drop through to other repo .. from what i know Gradle very commonly does that and its super hard to prevent. Only Maven has good support for the mirror stuff

    ],
    use_credentials_from_home_netrc_file = True,
)
```

{{% /tab %}}

{{< /tabs >}}

Replace `https://repo.example.com/java-all/` with your repo manager's virtual repository URL, and update the username and password.

## Step 4: Refresh dependencies

To force re-resolution from Chainguard, you can clear local caches or clear only relevant artifacts. 

{{< tabs >}}

{{% tab title="Maven" %}}

Remove local cache:

```bash
rm -rf ~/.m2/repository
```

Remove specific artifact:

```bash
rm -rf ~/.m2/repository/<group>/<artifact>
```
{{% /tab %}}

{{% tab title="Gradle" %}}

Remove local caches and stop any running daemons:

```bash
rm -rf ~/.gradle/caches
./gradlew --stop
```
Note: Run `./gradlew --stop` after clearing the Gradle cache to stop any running daemons. Skipping this step can cause build errors on the next run.

{{% /tab %}}

{{% tab title="Bazel" %}}

```shell
bazel clean --expunge
```

{{% /tab %}}

{{< /tabs >}}

## Step 5: Build the project

Run a full build and capture the output.

{{< tabs >}}

{{% tab title="Maven" %}}

```bash
cd your-project
mvn install 2>&1 | tee /tmp/mvn-output.txt
```

To check which repositories served completed downloads:

```bash

> grep "Downloaded from" /tmp/mvn-output.txt

Reviewer: It should not show central anywhere..

Author: Added below the command: All downloads should come from `chainguard` or `chainguard-remediated`.

```

{{% /tab %}}

{{% tab title="Gradle" %}}

```bash
cd your-project
./gradlew build --info 2>&1 | tee /tmp/gradle-output.txt
```

{{% /tab %}}

{{% tab title="Bazel" %}}

```bash
bazel build //... 2>&1 | tee /tmp/bazel-output.txt
```

Bazel embeds the source repository URL in the cache path for each downloaded artifact. 

{{% /tab %}}

{{< /tabs >}}

Look for lines beginning with `Downloaded from chainguard:` or `Downloaded from chainguard-remediated:` to confirm artifacts are being served by Chainguard. Lines beginning with `Downloaded from central:` indicate the dependency fell back to Maven Central. This is expected for packages not yet in Chainguard's catalog.

If all artifacts download from Central, your credentials may be invalid or expired. Regenerate your pull token, re-export the pull token credentials as environment variables, then clear the cache and rebuild.

## Step 6: Verify artifacts

> To check whether a specific jar was built by Chainguard or served from the upstream fallback, use `chainctl libraries verify /full/path/to/artifact.jar`. Verify jars immediately after a clean build, before any repackaging.

Reviewer: From what I know, you can only verify if an artifact was built by Chainguard. You can not verify if it can from Central or from our fallback to Central. They are the same files so that's technically not possible. Unless we modify them somehow now .. can you confirm @angela-zhang ?

Reviewer 2: that's correct - we are looking into options to be able to recognize both Chainguard + upstream fallback libs. It will likely require adding additional metadata/attestation to our upstream libraries. But that's currently in a research phase

{{< tabs >}}

{{% tab title="Maven" %}}

The jar path follows this pattern:
`~/.m2/repository/GROUP_ID_PATH/ARTIFACT_ID/VERSION/ARTIFACT_ID-VERSION.jar`

For example:

```bash
chainctl libraries verify \
  ~/.m2/repository/commons-io/commons-io/2.13.0/commons-io-2.13.0.jar
```

> A checksum mismatch means the jar came from Central rather than Chainguard. This can happen if the artifact was cached from a previous build. To resolve, delete the specific jar and re-download it:

Reviewer: Here and in all other cases .. I think we should use "JAR"

But also .. it could be other files so maybe just use artifacts?

```bash
rm ~/.m2/repository/commons-io/commons-io/2.13.0/commons-io-2.13.0.jar

> mvn dependency:resolve

Reviewer: That resolves a project's dependencies. If you want to resolve the specific JAR you need to use `dependency:get` or some other tool.

Reviewer: In this case `mvn dependency:get -Dartifact=commons-io:commons-io:2.13.0` but it might be best to find an example that is newer so artifactId and groupId are not that same.. thats a very old antipattern that is no longer allowed for new artifacts.

Author: I updated this section to use dependency:get

---
title: "Migrating a Java project to Chainguard Libraries"
type: "article"
linktitle: "Migrate to Chainguard"
description: "How to migrate an existing Java project to pull dependencies from Chainguard Libraries"
date: 2026-07-02T00:00:00+00:00
lastmod: 2026-07-02T00:00:00+00:00
tags: ["Chainguard Libraries", "Java"]
menu:
  docs: 
    parent: java
    identifier: Java Migration
weight: 056
toc: true
---

> Chainguard Libraries for Java provides a curated repository of packages rebuilt from upstream sources, with any upstream fallback packages [scanned for malware](/chainguard/libraries/overview/#malware-and-greyware-detection). Because Chainguard Libraries uses the standard Maven repository format, switching an existing project requires only a repository configuration change — no changes to your application code or dependency versions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Chainguard Libraries for Java provides a curated repository of packages rebuilt from upstream sources, and [scanned for malware](/chainguard/libraries/overview/#malware-and-greyware-detection). Because Chainguard Libraries uses the standard Maven repository format, switching an existing project requires only a repository configuration change — no changes to your application code or dependency versions.
```

Reviewer 2: we scan for malware across all packages (we will also block new builds if malware is detected)

This guide walks through migrating an existing Java project to Chainguard Libraries, covering the two most common setups:

- Direct access — your build tool connects directly to libraries.cgr.dev. This option is faster for initial evaluation and smaller-scale setups.

> - Repository manager — your build tool connects to a repository manager (such as Cloudsmith, JFrog Artifactory, or Sonatype Nexus), which proxies requests to Chainguard Libraries. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Repository manager — your build tool connects to a repository manager (such as [Cloudsmith](/chainguard/libraries/java/global-configuration/#cloudsmith), [JFrog Artifactory](/chainguard/libraries/java/global-configuration/#jfrog-artifactory), or [Sonatype Nexus](/chainguard/libraries/java/global-configuration/#sonatype-nexus-repository)), which proxies requests to Chainguard Libraries. 
```

just a thought

## Prerequisites

Before you begin, you'll need:
- An existing Java project 
- [`chainctl` installed and authenticated](/chainguard/chainctl-usage/how-to-install-chainctl/)

> - An [entitlement to Chainguard Libraries](/chainguard/chainctl/chainctl-docs/chainctl_libraries_entitlements_create/) for Java with [upstream fallback](/chainguard/libraries/overview/#upstream-fallback-and-controls) enabled

Reviewer 3: Given the following note and the first section where you create an entitlement and enable fallback, is this bullet necessary?

chainctl libraries policy create --name=java-cooldown-14d --cooldown-days=14
chainctl libraries policy enable --policy=java-cooldown-14d --ecosystem=JAVA --mode=ENFORCE
```

It can take up to 30 minutes for the fallback and cooldown policies to take effect.

## Step 1: Confirm your baseline build

Before making any changes, confirm your project builds cleanly against Maven Central.

{{< tabs >}}

{{% tab title="Maven" %}}

```shell
cd your-project
mvn install
```
{{% /tab %}}

{{% tab title="Gradle" %}}

```shell
cd your-project
./gradlew build
```

{{% /tab %}}

{{% tab title="Bazel" %}}

```shell
cd your-project
bazel build //...
```

{{% /tab %}}

{{< /tabs >}}

All dependencies should download from Central and tests should pass. This gives you a baseline to compare against after migration.

## Step 2: Generate a pull token

You must be an Owner or have the `libraries.java.pull_token_creator` permission to create a pull token.
You can [create a pull token in the Chainguard Console](/chainguard/libraries/access/#creating-pull-tokens-with-the-chainguard-console), or via `chainctl`. 

The following command creates the token and populates environment variables directly:

```shell

> Eval $(chainctl auth pull-token --repository=java --name=my-java-token --output=env)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
eval $(chainctl auth pull-token --repository=java --name=my-java-token --output=env)
```

Reviewer 3: actually, `eval` won't work as you need to make the command fully declarative by speciying the `--parent`.

Reviewer 3: here's what I get: 

```
mark@mark-chainguard:~$ eval $(chainctl auth pull-token create --repository=java --name=my-java-token --output=env)
Error: [202] Invalid selection.: not running in an interactive terminal, please provide more input
```

```

This results in values for the `CHAINGUARD_JAVA_IDENTITY_ID` and `CHAINGUARD_JAVA_TOKEN` variables. The token is named `my-java-token`, with a default expiration of 30 days. To configure the expiration, use the `--ttl` flag. 

Learn more about command options in the [chainctl documentation](/chainguard/chainctl/chainctl-docs/chainctl_auth_pull-token/).

When configuring direct access, note that environment variables do not persist between terminal sessions. You will need to re-export them each time you open a new terminal, or add them to your shell profile. Learn more about pull tokens in the [Access documentation](https://edu.chainguard.dev/chainguard/libraries/access/).

> ### Ensure secure credential management

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Do not commit credentials to version control.
```

This is more what I meant when I suggested putting this info under an H3, you still have `Do not commit ...` as a large, hard-to-miss callout. It was more that I thought leading what seemed like a new idea with just a bolded sentence looked off

**Do not commit credentials to version control.** The Gradle `build.gradle` file is typically committed to a repository — always use environment variables for credentials rather than hardcoding token values directly in the file. Maven credentials live in ~/.m2/settings.xml, which is outside the project directory and not committed by default, but take care not to add it to your repository. Store tokens as CI secrets referenced via environment variables instead. If you accidentally commit credentials, [delete the exposed token](/chainguard/libraries/access/#pull-token-management).

For more secure credential management, consider using a secrets manager such as 1Password CLI or Bitwarden, which can dynamically inject environment variables at runtime without storing token values in shell profiles or env files. 

### Verify your setup

> Run the following command for a connectivity and auth check:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Run the following command for a connectivity and authentication check:
```

```bash
curl -u "$CHAINGUARD_JAVA_IDENTITY_ID:$CHAINGUARD_JAVA_TOKEN" \
  https://libraries.cgr.dev/java/
```
The command returns an HTML page listing repository directories. If credentials are invalid or expired, you will receive a 403 error instead of the directory listing.

## Step 3: Configure repository access

The `https://libraries.cgr.dev/java/` endpoint is also the [Chainguard Repository](/chainguard/chainguard-repository/overview/) endpoint for Java. By default, it serves only Chainguard-built artifacts. When upstream fallback is enabled for your organization, the same endpoint can also serve requested versions from Maven Central under Chainguard security controls.

### Direct access

> {{< tabs >}}

Reviewer 3: these tabs look great! I need to start using these more

{{% tab title="Maven" %}}

Create or update `~/.m2/settings.xml` to point Maven at Chainguard Libraries. 

> This configuration sets the Chainguard [remediated repository](/chainguard/libraries/cve-remediation/) as the first source, followed by the standard Chainguard repository, with Maven Central set as “invalid” to avoid accidental unintended fallback to the public repository:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This configuration sets the Chainguard [remediated repository](/chainguard/libraries/cve-remediation/) as the first source, followed by the standard Chainguard repository, with Maven Central set as `invalid` to avoid accidental unintended fallback to the public repository:
```

Reviewer 3: Also, note that you have smart quotes (or curly quotes) turned on in GDocs (assuming you copied this from your GDocs draft). You should turn these off, as they can cause issues with markdown and in examples

        credentials {
            username = providers.environmentVariable("CHAINGUARD_JAVA_IDENTITY_ID").orNull
            password = providers.environmentVariable("CHAINGUARD_JAVA_TOKEN").orNull
        }
    }
    maven {
        url = uri("https://libraries.cgr.dev/java/")
        credentials {
            username = providers.environmentVariable("CHAINGUARD_JAVA_IDENTITY_ID").orNull
            password = providers.environmentVariable("CHAINGUARD_JAVA_TOKEN").orNull
        }
    }
    mavenCentral()
}
```

If a dependency's pom file is found in Chainguard but the jar is not, Gradle fails rather than falling back to Central automatically. If this happens, check whether a newer version of the dependency is available in Chainguard's catalog and update the version in your `build.gradle`.

{{% /tab %}}

{{% tab title="Bazel" %}}

Bazel uses `MODULE.bazel` to configure repositories via `rules_jvm_external`. 
First, set up `~/.netrc` with your Chainguard credentials:

```bash
printf 'machine libraries.cgr.dev\nlogin %s\npassword %s\n' "$CHAINGUARD_JAVA_IDENTITY_ID" "$CHAINGUARD_JAVA_TOKEN" > ~/.netrc
chmod 600 ~/.netrc
```

> > **Note**: ~/.netrc stores credentials in plaintext on disk. Be careful not to copy .netrc into a project directory where it could be accidentally committed to version control. Use short-lived tokens and rotate them regularly. In CI environments, prefer writing credentials to a temporary .netrc file that is cleaned up after the build, or use your CI platform's secrets management to inject credentials as environment variables instead. If you accidentally expose credentials, [delete the exposed token](/chainguard/libraries/access/#pull-token-management). 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
> **Note**: `~/.netrc` stores credentials in plaintext on disk. Be careful not to copy `.netrc` into a project directory where it could be accidentally committed to version control. Use short-lived tokens and rotate them regularly. In CI environments, prefer writing credentials to a temporary `.netrc` file that is cleaned up after the build, or use your CI platform's secrets management to inject credentials as environment variables instead. If you accidentally expose credentials, [delete the exposed token](/chainguard/libraries/access/#pull-token-management). 
```

idk, maybe

Next, update the `MODULE.bazel` to point to Chainguard Libraries. If you are using the remediated repository, add `https://libraries.cgr.dev/java-remediated/` first:

```module.bazel
maven.install(
    artifacts = [
        # your artifacts here
    ],
    repositories = [
        "https://libraries.cgr.dev/java-remediated/",
        "https://libraries.cgr.dev/java/",
    ],
    use_credentials_from_home_netrc_file = True,
)
```

> The `use_credentials_from_home_netrc_file = True` attribute tells the dependency resolver to read credentials from `~/.netrc` when authenticating with repositories. Without this flag, the `~/.netrc` is ignored, and requests to Chainguard fail authentication silently.

Reviewer 3: :chef-kiss:

```netrc
machine repo.example.com
login YOUR_REPO_MANAGER_USERNAME
password YOUR_REPO_MANAGER_PASSWORD
```

Then update MODULE.bazel to point to your repo manager:

```module.bazel
maven.install(
    artifacts = [
        # your artifacts here
    ],
    repositories = [
        "https://repo.example.com/java-all/",
    ],
    use_credentials_from_home_netrc_file = True,
)
```

{{% /tab %}}

{{< /tabs >}}

Replace `https://repo.example.com/java-all/` with your repo manager's virtual repository URL, and update the username and password.

## Step 4: Refresh dependencies

To force re-resolution from Chainguard, you can clear local caches or clear only relevant artifacts. 

{{< tabs >}}

{{% tab title="Maven" %}}

Remove local cache:

```bash
rm -rf ~/.m2/repository
```

Remove specific artifact:

```bash
rm -rf ~/.m2/repository/<group>/<artifact>
```
{{% /tab %}}

{{% tab title="Gradle" %}}

Remove local caches and stop any running daemons:

```bash
rm -rf ~/.gradle/caches
./gradlew --stop
```
Note: Run `./gradlew --stop` after clearing the Gradle cache to stop any running daemons. Skipping this step can cause build errors on the next run.

{{% /tab %}}

{{% tab title="Bazel" %}}

> 

Reviewer 3: maven and gradle have some nice instructional sentences explaining what you're doing while this is just an unexplained command. I'd add some context here

```

Alternatively, you can create an entitlement in the Chainguard Console: while viewing the Java ecosystem page, follow the prompts to create an access token.

You can also configure cooldown policies after you create the entitlement. For example, to create and enforce a policy for a 14-day cooldown:

```shell
chainctl libraries policy create --name=java-cooldown-14d --cooldown-days=14
chainctl libraries policy enable --policy=java-cooldown-14d --ecosystem=JAVA --mode=ENFORCE
```

It can take up to 30 minutes for the fallback and cooldown policies to take effect.

> **Note**: If you choose to manage your own fallback to upstream repositories, see the following docs pages for more information: [Build configuration](/chainguard/libraries/java/build-configuration/) for direct access instructions or [Global configuration](/chainguard/libraries/java/global-configuration/) for repo manager instructions. Note that configuring a public fallback bypasses the protections provided by Chainguard.

## Step 1: Confirm your baseline build

Before making any changes, confirm your project builds cleanly against Maven Central.

{{< tabs >}}

{{% tab title="Maven" %}}

```shell
cd your-project

> mvn install

Reviewer: Since you use the Gradle wrapper.. also use the maven wrapper in the examples

Reviewer: Or change Gradle since bazel is directly invoked as well..

```module.bazel
maven.install(
    artifacts = [
        # your artifacts here
    ],
    repositories = [
        "https://libraries.cgr.dev/java-remediated/",
        "https://libraries.cgr.dev/java/",
    ],
    use_credentials_from_home_netrc_file = True,
)
```

The `use_credentials_from_home_netrc_file = True` attribute tells the dependency resolver to read credentials from `~/.netrc` when authenticating with repositories. Without this flag, the `~/.netrc` is ignored, and requests to Chainguard fail authentication silently.

{{% /tab %}}

{{< /tabs >}}

### Repository manager

If your organization uses a repository manager, configure it to use Chainguard Libraries as an upstream source first. Follow the [global configuration documentation](/chainguard/libraries/java/global-configuration/) for your repository manager.

Once configured, point your build tool at your repository manager URL. In this setup, the credentials your build tool uses are your repository manager credentials — not a Chainguard pull token.

{{< tabs >}}

{{% tab title="Maven" %}}

Create or update `~/.m2/settings.xml` to point Maven at your repository manager:

```xml
<settings>

>   <activeProfiles>

Reviewer: This file is missing the mirror .. as it stands that wont work for repo maanager only .. it will fall back to central directly

Reviewer: And to be safe you should still also add the override for "central"

        }
    }
}

```

{{% /tab %}}

{{% tab title="Bazel" %}}

First, configure your repo manager authentication in `~/.netrc`:

```netrc
machine repo.example.com
login YOUR_REPO_MANAGER_USERNAME
password YOUR_REPO_MANAGER_PASSWORD
```

Then update MODULE.bazel to point to your repo manager:

```module.bazel
maven.install(
    artifacts = [
        # your artifacts here
    ],
    repositories = [
        "https://repo.example.com/java-all/",
    ],
    use_credentials_from_home_netrc_file = True,
)
```

{{% /tab %}}

{{< /tabs >}}

Replace `https://repo.example.com/java-all/` with your repo manager's virtual repository URL, and update the username and password.

## Step 4: Refresh dependencies

To force re-resolution from Chainguard, you can clear local caches or clear only relevant artifacts.

{{< tabs >}}

{{% tab title="Maven" %}}

Remove local cache:

```bash
rm -rf ~/.m2/repository
```

Remove specific artifact:

```bash
rm -rf ~/.m2/repository/<group>/<artifact>
```

{{% /tab %}}

{{% tab title="Gradle" %}}

Remove local caches and stop any running daemons:

```bash
rm -rf ~/.gradle/caches
./gradlew --stop
```

> Note: Run `./gradlew --stop` after clearing the Gradle cache to stop any running daemons. Skipping this step can cause build errors on the next run.

Reviewer 3: Should this be formatted like other notes?

For more secure credential management, consider using a secrets manager such as 1Password CLI or Bitwarden, which can dynamically inject environment variables at runtime without storing token values in shell profiles or env files.

### Verify your setup

Run the following command for a connectivity and authentication check:

```bash
curl -u "$CHAINGUARD_JAVA_IDENTITY_ID:$CHAINGUARD_JAVA_TOKEN" \
  https://libraries.cgr.dev/java/
```

The command returns an HTML page listing repository directories. If credentials are invalid or expired, the command returns a 403 error instead of the directory listing.

## Step 3: Configure repository access

The `https://libraries.cgr.dev/java/` endpoint is also the [Chainguard Repository](/chainguard/chainguard-repository/overview/) endpoint for Java. By default, it serves only Chainguard-built artifacts. When upstream fallback is enabled for your organization, the same endpoint can also serve requested versions from Maven Central under Chainguard security controls.

### Direct access

{{< tabs >}}

{{% tab title="Maven" %}}

> Maven repository configuration is split across two files: repository URLs go in your project's `pom.xml`, and credentials go in `~/.m2/settings.xml`. The `server` IDs in `settings.xml` must match the `repository` IDs in `pom.xml` — Maven pairs them automatically by ID when resolving credentials.

Reviewer: Sorry.. not sure how you came to that. Adding the repos to the pom is a known bad pattern. It should all stay in the settings file. The only thing is if you want to use it only locally in a project, the convention is to have it located in the .mvn folder in the project and use -s in all calls. See https://github.com/chainguard-demo/chainguard-libraries-java/tree/main/cve-2024-38819

        - Maven central
        - anything else needed, including internal repos
      -->
      <!--<url>https://repo.example.com:8443/repository/java-all/</url>-->
      <url>http://localhost:8081/repository/java-all/</url>
    </mirror>
  </mirrors>

  <!-- Activate repo manager and override central repo from Maven itself with invalid URLs -->
  <activeProfiles>
    <activeProfile>repo-manager</activeProfile>
  </activeProfiles>
  <profiles>
    <profile>
      <id>repo-manager</id>
      <repositories>
        <repository>
          <id>central</id>
          <url>http://central</url>
          <releases>
            <enabled>true</enabled>
          </releases>
          <snapshots>
            <enabled>true</enabled>
          </snapshots>
        </repository>
      </repositories>
      <pluginRepositories>
        <pluginRepository>
          <id>central</id>
          <url>http://central</url>
          <releases>
            <enabled>true</enabled>
          </releases>
          <snapshots>
            <enabled>true</enabled>
          </snapshots>
        </pluginRepository>
      </pluginRepositories>
    </profile>
  </profiles>

  <servers>
    <server>

>       <id>repo-manager</id>

Reviewer: this must be nexus .. see comment earlier

Author: I updated the paragraph before the config. It now links to the GitHub examples for repo manager settings and says to use environment variables for credentials when possible

```bash
find ~/.gradle/caches/ -name "*.jar"
```

This command returns the full paths of your project dependencies. Choose one of the JARs, and verify it using the full path. For example:

```bash
chainctl libraries verify ~/.gradle/caches/modules-2/files-2.1/com.google.guava/guava/20.0/c2ea0b73679bc223a7ab119afd0ece31636173bc/guava-20.0.jar
```

A checksum mismatch means the artifact came from Central rather than Chainguard. This can happen if the artifact was cached from a previous build. To resolve, delete the specific artifact and re-download it. For example:

```bash
rm -rf ~/.gradle/caches/modules-2/files-2.1/commons-collections
./gradlew dependencies
```

Then run `chainctl libraries verify` again.

{{% /tab %}}

{{% tab title="Bazel" %}}

Bazel embeds the source repository URL in the cache path, making it easy to identify which JARs came from Chainguard. Use `find` to locate a JAR. For example:

Linux:

```bash
find ~/.cache/bazel -path "*cgr.dev*" -name "jackson-databind*.jar" 2>/dev/null
```

MacOS:

```bash
find ~/Library/Caches/bazel -path "*cgr.dev*" -name "jackson-databind*.jar" 2>/dev/null
```

Then verify using the full path. For example:

```bash

> chainctl libraries verify ~/Library/Caches/bazel/_bazel_example/c22a55500fa8462e9bf6b663d5366abd/external/rules_jvm_external++maven+maven/v1/https/45a0c61ea6fd977f050c5fb9ac06a69eed764595/1f4231148aeda823%40libraries.cgr.dev/java/com/fasterxml/jackson/core/jackson-databind/2.9.10/jackson-databind-2.9.10.jar

Reviewer: I would shorten this command
